on this computer hello welcome to the
package managers weekly sync February
the 19th 2019
I am taking brain I am your host and
updates last week were blocked on and
what we're going to do next
I'll start so last week we had the
infrastructure team in London which was
super helpful
we got proper logging and metrics on NPM
on the ipfs NPM registry Mareth which is
lovely because now we can see like you
know resources over time and all that
kind of stuff that's been super helpful
I investigated what I thought was a
memory leak in the mirror turns out it
wasn't a memory leak at all what was
happening was just it was interesting
NPM too quickly and it wasn't getting it
on to s3 quickly enough and so we were
putting all this data down and it just
going into a buffer waiting to go off to
s3
which is filling up and the process was
falling over so that was good news it
just needed a bit of a bear tuning to be
less less aggressively downloading stuff
from NPM so that's been great now for
for pretty much a week and so I'm losing
that one off I wrote some blog posts on
NPM and ipfs on the client in the
registry they are in progress I need to
address with the comments on that yeah
so no block to anything the next thing
I'm going to be doing is looking into a
pub/sub so we've got this weird problem
at the moment where to the replication
master pools anything from NPM ingest
them into ipfs updates the pack youment
as they like to call it with see IDs for
all the tar balls and then uses pub/sub
to broadcast all the mirrors Hey
there's been an update here is a new
here is a new apartment and then marries
goku and replace their copy of the
manifest with with what they've been
given which all works for about half an
hour also and then suddenly the
replication masters list of topic peers
empties and
stop sending messages to people even
though it claims to be sending messages
so I'm kind of looking into that at the
moment I'm just running it all with a
lot of logging going on with floods of
and they've open an issue on the little
of p2p pub/sub group as well
a bit of help from the guys in that and
that's gonna be me I am away from
tomorrow until the end of next week so I
will be checking my email but I won't be
doing very much stuff that is me any
question I say were those metrics do you
know approximately how many package
downloads the registry is serving or how
many people are like actively using it
no it's just a resource usage at the
moment we mean to chase up with an
airing how we can get like custom
metrics as well so at the moment what
it's doing is just looking at the the
the stats the dock containers kick out
cool
what have you been doing so I don't know
if I'd say caught up completely but I
certainly have a little bit better
understanding of how protocol labs is
doing stuff and have read a humongous
amount of Doctson issues and things the
other kind of naughty little thing that
I did was a oh I can I can screen share
this thing let's try this based off of
the registry Oh what that doesn't the
crypt pad it makes it look like links or
links but they're not links are they
let's try this share so
I made a little page that you can type
in a package name and it will go to jail
registry jester ipfs tayo and pull the
data from the API there and it really
only shows the latest version and the
the cid if it's available right now but
potentially there's a few different
things that you could do with that it
could be wrapped up in a Chrome
extension that we could basically make
if you visit NPM they could insert the
CID for a given version into the page so
people would copypasta that if they were
interested in pulling it directly from
there the oh that's wait if I drag my
window around it sort of that's very
strange um I also that kind of thing
building that made me realize that and
we needed cause adding to the registry
so I added that as well as a little
thing this isn't hosted on ipfs but it
is a single page so I should think you'd
be able to do that if we wanted to but
probably it's just a case of making it
part of the registry as as a built-in
web page rather than like a whole
separate thing I don't think we want to
go ahead and build another libraries io
on top of that just yet the I also
started looking into I've not really
started building it yet but I made a
started making a plug-in for bundler the
Ruby gems dependency manager and it has
quite a nice set of API is to be able to
extend the manifest format so you can
actually add more content to a lock file
a gem file lock in Ruby gems without
that like being blasted away by existing
clients it will basically only update
the sections that it cares about and
allows you to add stuff in so you can
add in an IB FS block at the bottom
which could store C IDs and then be used
for a retrieval
from the source type of extension that
you can put into bundler that basically
says like there are different ways of
going about loading packages they don't
have to be loaded over HTTP you can add
in all different ways and they actually
implement three of them themselves the
get one the the path one and there's
another one Oh regular rubygems dog so
started I don't think it'd be too
complicated to do to basically make a
command that all could take your
existing installed ruby gems put them on
ipfs get back the see IDs for each
package or each file dot gem which is
what you get from rubygems.org and then
write that into the gem file clock so
that you can reproduce the whole thing
again without needing to be online you
can just talk to your local ipfs daemon
but there does require updating the ruby
ipfs HTTP API wrapper which there's
there's an active maintainer behind it
but he is a little bit slow so I've been
working on a fork of that as just like
an aside and then I also started writing
up my thoughts on some short-term
roadmap stuff which is the link is in
the crib pad thinking about some of the
different kind of
[Music]
reasons why we want to get things on get
different package managers on IP ffs
from different points of view either
from maintain of package managers from
users of package managers or from
protocol labs ipfs and then also
categorized very broadly groups of
package managers into ways that actually
affect how we might go about getting
them to implement ipfs into centralized
registry portable registry which is a
fun one where users literally
downloading a whole copy of the registry
every time that they install something
multiple registries which is maven and
apt and RPM being the ones that like
they're pretty much already doing all of
this and so most of these problems and
then registry lists which is the like
arbitrary URLs on the internet which
becomes it's slightly easier in some
ways and then dependency resolution is
significantly harder or they just don't
bother in other ways c GX as an example
of not bothering to do any dependency
resolution but basically then taking
those categories and looking at
different ways that we could make some
use cases or some different approaches
to solving some form of like basic IP FS
support without needing to completely
burden the registry maintainer x' with
adding a whole load of extra stuff that
they needed a support forevermore
which is tricky next thing that I'm
going to do is talking of registry
maintain is reach out to a few
people that I've probably ones that I've
already spoken to on the manifest or
that I know about how interested they be
in adding support for ipfs and the
challenges that they see documenting
some of that and probably end up
recording those calls too to get an idea
of what the kind of broad consensus
would be for tackling something like
that and whether they would any of them
would be actively interested and seeing
what the kind of blockers - that are as
well as working a little bit more on
this roadmap and talking to more people
about it and trying to get their
thoughts and see how that connects to
what the next steps for those things are
yeah I think that's about it
any questions
I have a question about that I also I
had to stop listening for for the few
seconds so maybe you already answer my
question so sorry for making you
repeated but so so I think there's like
two phases to this rule map for package
managers one of them is like what the
package manager is going to focus on
relationships etc and the other part is
really like these lists of requirements
that we want to create as soon as
possible to inform all the other working
groups right there is this huge
dependency right now where people kind
of like some intuition but it'd be great
to have the leadership from the package
managers working group with like support
of other working groups of course to
just kind of like identify what would be
the top level items so that the other
working groups can like it just a
roadmaps for q2 and so so did you have
time to think about that like on the
pipeline so I'm need to speak to more
people that are more aware of the like
levels of implementation and readiness
for ipfs um which is something that I
will add to my list to do this week of
trying to gauge like given these things
how achievable are those things because
I'm still kind of in the weeds a little
bit there on what things are good what
things are bad I mean the heading the
tht stuff big working with the NPM
registry will be a really good kind of
test to see how much those kinds of
things can work and like can we then get
other people to connect their hosted
versions of those of that registry or
you know the similar kind of bit of code
to actually all start working together
and being told about new versions of
things being published but as it
connects to how exactly the ipfs roadmap
should change I'm still not exactly
clear on that so I think it's more a
case of going like here are things we
want to achieve and then speaking to
connected to know how achieve all those
things are yeah I think you're right and
I don't think like we are expecting
especially that given that you just
joined the project and in like this we
just got subscribe hit that like you
will be able to enroll a list of
requirements specifically for which
feature goes into which implementation
but but but like it's that list of
requirements from the package management
slant right how often are the publishes
where is the size of the datasets like
what what would like what for example if
you were to build a package manager
today what will be the benchmarks that
you would need to see from multiple file
systems multiple file stores that would
give you the confidence that like it's
ready to store all of your packages
right into having those kind of like
tests benchmarks written say hey if ipfs
cannot handle like five terabytes every
day moving from like 10 mirrors and then
a package manager such as I don't know
company name a project name would not
adopt it because that's what they are
doing other things is if we don't have a
way and I just touched on like if we
don't have a way for users to discover
individual packages without like
accessing a central registry then we are
not creating like extra fun value for
for the these clients but like every net
written down then then helps the team
understand oh I can then create a DHT
providing policy
we're only the see IDs of the package
itself gets published but not the
internal Vox of the package so now I'm
able to optimize like the publishing
because I can like just remove all these
other provides from each block and all
the intermediary nodes in like from your
point of view you don't need to know
like these internal details you just
need to to tell the group like the
requirements and when I say you I can
actually I really mean us it's just like
great great like your your insights in
like leadership here but like there's a
lot of things that we should be all
collaborating to make these like more
complete in an easier on everyone I
think I think one of the requirements is
going to come out pretty quickly is is
it has to be as fast at least as HTTP
well but like I'm one to one connection
or can we cheat by saying that like ipfs
will be faster than I should be as long
as there is like five replicates well
exactly you know can we move the
goalposts slightly but like we have to
be able to say I mean we have to know
under what conditions it is as fast as
HTTP because you know what we can't do
is turn around so I have have the
maintainer turn around to their users
and go hey cool you've got this like a
new thing oh by the way it's gonna take
three times from stalled everything
three times as long you know yeah seems
like from where we are to where we want
to be there's gonna be its the
progressive jpg of what are the asks
from the package managers working group
like today they're going to be pretty
high level and a bit like we need to be
able to store an MP Emsworth packages
and where we want to get to is in about
weeks have something a lot more concrete
there are other people other working
groups can use to drive there their
goals for next quarter so
like there should be a document that
just gradually gets more and more clear
Alex Kinney would make agrees because
I'm doing like crazy okay yeah just that
like that it's worth making sure that
that is explicit as an output of this
group and that it's a priority for the
next four weeks I would say like and to
say that like the output is going to
change over time and it's didn't
necessarily going to be super vague for
the next week or two but then like in
four weeks we need it to be something
that can start being ingested by other
working groups so they should like we
should make a google look then it should
have a well known link that we throw
around and that it you know this thing
that progressively gets more specific so
the the tosser andrew has in his next
section for contracting the package
maintainer stooping to be about using
like givers is going to definitely form
the skeleton of that document and then
you know as those conversations regress
it will get more and more concrete and
then we'll have some actual tasks so
yeah I mean what you might find is some
of them are just like unless you can
give ways that we can delete stuff then
it's never gonna happen
so that's a nice kind of fat line of
like well we have to have a good story
about how stuff needs to be suggested
for a removal whether on that that is a
core feature of ipfs or if that is a
application-level thing that still needs
to be some something in there for sure
definitely super useful to capture if
people asking for that I mean the first
person I mentioned it to the first
maintainer right I said a DMT was like
but but how would I delete things from
there
it's a super interesting one because
he's been yeah because like then the
question is so there's a way to do it
right which is here's a list of things
that you should not resolve right like
or you should not replicate and then
it's at the user right in the same way
that like people can go online and find
like pirated content and nonno it like
then it's upon the user it's on some
company enforcing it so we do have the
strategy to do that but we might want to
reword what we call that because he's
like denialists or block lists and like
and like it is not yeah like I think
like for the package managers that are
like a better language saying oh the
maintainer the lid of this for your
convenience it's not that the ipfs
registries accessor in your view or this
package yeah so if you already have it
well tonight but yeah Ito behavior of
these things is gonna have such a big
impact that for the edge case people
yeah that's like that doesn't matter so
much but the default should be something
that makes sense for majority because
they're not going to break outside of it
I want reproducible builds and maybe my
build depends on that run somewhere that
you published last week like I will I'll
choose when I stop depending on
ransomware that's up to me but hey it's
funny but actually there's like one of
the corporate positions right like let
people get to decide this in in
understand like rather than seeing a 404
all of the sudden you make the default
behavior like opt-in to a shared a
community deny list and do not Rios list
but then individuals can choose to fort
it at their risk and once you get that
then you solve like for example Yahoo's
use case where they're like whitelist so
if I could just the PIO out to use
internally and so similarly the thing
that like yeah like they're the
construction and lets you remove
packages from registries also the one
i'd like a neighbor
companies to be very happy which is also
the one that like certain countries we
said that rigid rules will also make
like it'll work for everyone depending
where you are another thing was just
respect without like extra curls to make
it work
so I guess second on this question my
other question wrote this is like how
useful in like the answer can be this is
totally like going nowhere but like how
useful is the spreadsheet that we kind
of like try to structure to capture this
information like what are the things
that this package managers do that then
we need to listen to make sure that we
can fulfill the requirement is
especially a graduate your preference
perch is not good but I think it feels
like there's more dimensions than fit
naturally in a spreadsheet but I think
the approach I'm kind of imagining
taking is one to actually speak to a few
people to be like here are the kind of
like the questions and they result in
columns I guess but then
trying to like if you just have the
spreadsheet and you try and compare
between the package managers a lot of
those columns would be like well that
would work but we have no Buy in from
the maintainer z-- to be able to do
anything
so trying to compare and sort by giving
columns won't necessarily be helpful
it's more like for each there's a
document I have somewhere that is kind
of like groups of registries and clients
together we kind of want to have a story
or a some kind of like document for each
one that keeps track of like the
different approaches or attempts to do
this by independent people beforehand
the conversations we've had with the
maintainer z-- any kind of already like
stats that we've collected so that when
you come to look at one you can kind of
then go like here is the current story
the current situation and what we're
planning to do about it
and then when then we pull out like a
high-level here are the the groups of
things that fit with this or here is the
like the current highest bandwidth
package manager' that we know of or the
one that fits with the most different
mirrors that are public or rather than
trying to squeeze what is going to be
quite a rich text document into a
spreadsheet I think we we make a folder
full of them of the kind of the groups
of registries and clients and then build
a story around each one because there's
going to be I think we just spin our way
as what we tried to kind of normalize it
out too quickly as saying they're all
the same until we can get to like here
are a couple are trying to implement the
same thing we see where the like the
similarities are so makes it yeah I
think you already spoke about this but
your your definition of clusterings
of different package managers is worth
restating that so like you've currently
got three levels of like centralized
repository portable repository where
homebrew style it's bundled and then
like meaningfully pluggable repository
think I can't remember the last one was
birth yeah the last one was that fully
registry lists like arbitrary URLs point
where you like yeah yeah this there's no
consensus on anything yeah we just use
DNS and you're like huh and so the
levels that you're describing now are
currently like those three cloth
classifications of package managers yeah
so got for class four categories of
package managers which you can some of
them kind of cross they're obviously
always gonna be there like this one is
kind of listing kind of this but then
like I grouped them into like if you
were to you know share you share your
screen with the look on yeah trying to
find the talk
oh where have I put it can be good rocks
just have a 3-minute warning well I just
want to say thank you first so much for
like explaining the reason and reasoning
and the rationale I can see your point
and I agree with you like definitely
it's very hard to capture all this
information in this regime and what I
guess I would say it might be a good
experiment to do that like in a week's
time as you progress with these
discussions and as you get the chance to
write down like also your knowledge
about all these face to create like
small artifacts maybe even it's like a
one-page talk or like five slides that
you outline what would be like these
requirements that can be communicated to
the other working groups and then they
go say oh okay if there is a thing that
we can we have to meet an expectation
that we have to meet
I now know which like objectives which
milestones I could add or remove from my
map so that like you also get some
feedback because in the end like you are
not going to give to working groups like
you're like we are not going to give to
ten working groups ten like fifty
folders of that cage miners information
for them to induce themselves so I said
I don't have you should be able say this
I basically grouped bridge three
types where that there can be multiple
instances of a registry even like
self-hosted ones and then the clients
that would speak to them there's not
many clients that speak to different
like more than one kind registry so it's
fairly easy to group them under maven is
a beast because her
there's many like public popular
registries and then there's many clients
including like closure and other like
multiple programming languages that are
pointed at that so that's a really juicy
one to to like there's lots of different
options and different people that have
ways of implementing things and I took
basically they're like the biggest
application level or language level
package managers mostly because I could
pull all the numbers from libraries I oh
I also think we're probably gonna ignore
the Sipan for the moment just because no
one is written a client in it but
through then this sorts kind of like
keep building up this story of what all
of the different and if requirements are
for each different package manager or
like group of things and then break them
out into like well here's the high-level
summary of these conversations we've had
so far and be existing implementations
that we know of we are out of time so
I'm gonna call this meeting to a close
thank you for coming to the weekly
update and we will see you all next week
for another exciting round of package
matter up day
[Music]